Overview
========

I have a lot of accounts, on a lot of different websites. Some of them I use
almost everyday (like gmail), some of them give access to very sensitive
information (like paypal), some other I are used in a passive way (like
dropbox) and some of them I've only use once or twice (like online shops).

This is my try on organizing this mess my account and password information has
become. Here I'll try to give advice and guidelines that I do follow. Feel free
to follow them too.

What are the risks ?
--------------------

What you need to understand is that some websites are more secure than others,
and none are 100% secure. Given enough time, every website, will be
compromised. No service can offer a complete guarantee of being absolutely
secure.

Once you understand that, you do put a bit more time in making your own online
accounts as safe as possible.

The other important thing to understand is that any security scheme is as
strong as the weakest element in the chain. You might think that it is no big
deal if someone manage to obtain access to your mylittlecuteshop.com because
you only ever ordered one thing on that website 3 years ago and you did not
give any important information to that website anyway.

Your date of birth ? You already have it publicly displayed on Facebook anyway.
Your address ? You no longer live at that place. So, really, why should you
care that someone got access to that account ?

Well, maybe because you did use the same password for that account and for
another website. Maybe even for your gmail account ? Ouch, that would be bad.
You have a ton of important information available in your gmail account. Love
letters, billing information, job resume, private pictures, etc. But more
importantly, whoever has access to your email can potentially get access to
most of your online account using the "I forgot my password" like that most
site offer and that send a reset password link by email... to that very own
address that is already compromised.

Now that you are now more aware of the risks, let's see what we can do to
mitigate all this.


Never use the same password twice
---------------------------------

As outlined above, it is crucial to never use the same password twice. That
way, even if someone manage to get access to a weak link, he won't be able to
get access to more important informations from that password.

The easiest way to do that without having your head exploding is to use
a password manager application. This is a small app where you can save all your
login and passwords. The app itself is protected with a master password (the
only one you absolutly have to remember, so make it super-strong). There are
a few out there for different OS, but I personnally use KeePassX.

Make your passwords strong
--------------------------

I just said that you should make the master password super-strong. This is
absolutly true. But this does not mean that any other password should be weak.
All your passwords should be strong.

You probably have heard a lot of different things about password and how to
make them strong. Do not use your login as a password, do not use "qwerty" or
any keyboard sequence, do not use your birth date or the name of your children.
Mix uppercase with lower case, use number, use special characters like #, [ or
^.

These are all very good advice, but not very pratical in everyday life. Sure,
your could create a super strong password like "x¬Iåf0²ù õ]åVþ6É¶iy", but
honestly, will you ever remember it ? Will you even be able to type it ?

On the other hand, it is true that the longer the password, the more secure it
is. The larger the alphabet used, the better.

Here is an example of a scheme one can use to create a strong password.

First, you pick a small sentence. It is better to avoid famous quotes, and
stick with very simple sentences, like "My neighbour is named Aldous". It is
even better if one word does not exists in any dictionnary.  Maybe it is word
you used when your were a child, maybe it was the name of one of your pet, or
you just invented it, or you changed the letter order.

For example, "My roubghnei is named Aldous". You can even throw a bit of
special characters in it, like "My roubghnei name is : Aldous". I discourage
using l33t sp34k in password as this can very easily be tested in an alphabet
attack. It is just better to add number or punctuation where it does not make
any sense.

You can just stop here and you'd already have a strong password. Feel free to
add more and more complexity to it, but be sure to still remember it, or at
least remember how to get the final password from the initial sentence.

What I also do is keep this master password as a base, but modify it for every
new website. For example, if I'll connect to ebay, I could just change the
password to "My roubghnei ebay is : Aldous". I can even complexify it a bit
more, maybe changing the first and last letter of "Aldous" with the first and
last letters of the website, making it "My roubghnei name is : Eldouy".

Once again, add complexity as long as 1/ you can remember it and 2/ you end up
with different passwords for each accounts.

Using different email addresses
-------------------------------
Une pour les spams (shops, etc), une pour le perso, une pour le pro. Au moins,
ça limite les dégats.

Sites qui jouent pas le jeu
---------------------------

Si un site m'envoie mon email en clair lors de l'inscription, on efface le
mail, et si possible on change le mot de passe. C'est pas très grave. S'ils le
renvoient en clair quand on clique sur "mot de passe perdu" alors là c'est très
grave. Prévenir les dev de l'erreur pour qu'ils le changent, et éviter
d'utiliser le site web, changer le mot de passe.

Dans l'idéal, on s'inscrit avec un pass weak. On teste la récupération de mot
de passe. Si correcte, on change par un mot de passe plus fort.
